---
title: Top 5 Trends Machine Learning will see in 2019
date: 2018-08-28
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-6/
author_profile: false
tags:
  - Machine Learning
  - Artificial Intelligence
---

Here are your top 5 trends in Machine Learning for 2019!

__5. Improved Customer Experience__
====== 

Most businesses have started targeting advanced intelligent models for interaction with customers. Basic protocols such as customer feedback, response rating and terms of service agreement are carried out by carefully designed and programmed systems. However, some organizations still feel that Machine Learning may be regarded as the creation of less-human robots. This reservation has led to the growth of ML in the business sector.

 

With the primary aim of making models more interactive, large-scale IT firms such as Google and Amazon have backed up an enormous amount of support to AI revolution. Corporate research suggests that about 85% of customer interactions will be managed without a human by the end of 2019. Thus, clients are ready to see increased interaction with chatbots or pre-programmed systems.

 

__4. Improved Management of Technology__
====== 

With a global revolution of the IT sector on its way, Machine Learning is set to reach the pinnacle of performance. This translates to immense responsibility in the hands of programmers and data scientists.

 

Since intelligent systems are going to become a part of our everyday lives it is essential that these models be handled with care. Management of costly hardware along with increased data requirements are some of the aspects data scientists need to take into consideration. Furthermore, the requirement of resources is also expected to rise due to the large power consumption rates at which automated machines operate. Such technology, after facing several criticisms in the past, is also expected to yield results. Thus, accurate usage of machines along with optimized performance is also a key aspect to look out for in the coming year.

 

 

__3. Improved Medical Applications__
====== 

Medical data holds enormous amounts of applications for diagnosis. Treatment of complex diseases along with the analysis of similar symptoms are some of the challenging areas for doctors. With an equivalent growth in the e-health sector, the medical industry is ready to welcome the involvement of AI with open arms. Ranging from medical image processing to human-machine interaction using biochemical evaluation, Machine Learning is ready to take up tasks which doctors have always felt hesitant about. Novel systems built using ML can help in the identification of diseases and in providing a correct diagnosis of ailments. ML can also help in gene-sequencing, clinical trials, drug discovery and R&D, and epidemic outbreak predictions.

 

Apart from a treatment perspective, Machine Learning has also played a key role in clinical management. AI models have seen extensive growth in storing patient data, keeping dosage tracks, scheduling OPD appointments and attending patient interaction sessions.

 

 

__2. Introduction of Advanced Development Platforms__
====== 

The rise of Machine Learning has given rise to a number of open-source platforms. These are created by various IT organizations for the purpose of building advanced frameworks and encourage research in the arena of Machine Learning.

 

Alibaba Cloud’s ET Brain is one such platform. The platform combines multiple Machine Learning and data handling capabilities across different industry verticals. ET Brain can help organizations in real-time decisions with reasoning algorithms and drive innovation with machine learning approaches. Similar to ET Brain, Google’s AutoML is another intelligent platform. One of the leading frameworks in machine learning, AutoML extends the capability of an AI creating models of its own and training them without any human interaction. With an extensive feedback mechanism AutoML intakes reviews from a user and builds intelligent models capable of performing specific tasks for specific business corporations.

 

 

__1. Increased Contribution to Global Economy__
====== 

PwC’s Global Artificial Intelligence Study named Machine Learning as the “biggest commercial opportunity in today’s fast-changing economy.” The study threw light on how AI is ready to set foot in corporate structures and make or break the conventional industrial outlook.

 

As per the study, Machine Learning could contribute up to $15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030, starting as of 2019. This indicates an output of more than the outputs of China and India combined. Of this, $6.6 trillion is likely to come from increased productivity and $9.1 trillion from consumption side-effects.

 

Since Machine Learning is yet to cover more ground in the developing nations, the coming year would see the creation of more jobs in the IT and automation sectors. Increased opportunities would further result in increased competition and exploitation of the invested capital to return higher profit margins.

 

 

The year 2019 would make Machine Learning a part of our lives with respect to either simple or complex tasks. From Google’s machine homogenizing our search results to Amazon providing us with shopping recommendations, Machine Learning is all set to make its mark in the coming year of automation.
