---
title: 5 Ways to Generate Income from Artificial Intelligence
date: 2018-08-01
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-3/
author_profile: false
tags:
  - Machine Learning
  - Artificial Intelligence
---

AI has touched every human life in some form or other in the past decade. One of its significant boons has been the introduction of automation and convenience in our everyday routines. From waking us up in the morning to turning our bedroom lights at night time, AI has revolutionized the ways of human livelihood. While the myth of AI taking away a large chunk of jobs is yet to be busted, professionals worldwide are eyeing at this ever-expanding technology to make a big buck.

__Introduction__
======

Machine Learning programmers and Data Scientists have for long targeted AI as a stable source of revenue due to its increasing usage. Furthermore, many day workers and industry professionals now use Artificial Intelligence as a second source of income. According to a LinkedIn annual report, over 1,00,000 users who are currently students are in the quest of pursuing a second source of income. The high demand indicates an increasing amount of open positions for young professionals. But young or seasoned, AI presents a huge opportunity for generating long-term wealth, which brings us to the list of tips and tricks you can use to generate income from AI and Machine Learning.

__5. Stock Investments__
====== 

How it Works: Day-time traders and long-term investors have increased the use of AI for share trading and market evaluation. By training AI models as per the past behavior of market fluctuation, these models can predict the state of the market with a lower degree of error. A fair assessment of stock values can be made by automated algorithms based on pre-applied calculations. An investor new to the area of stock market trading can make use of AI which would guide him to the behavior of the market. The algorithm also assists the trader in helping out which stocks to pick and which to avoid.

 

This is done by studying the stock’s dividends and return rates. A comprehensive list of options is generated and presented to the user for approval. Once the trading session has started, the AI has partial or total control of the stock in case the user is not around. Especially in the case of long-term investors, AI does most of the trading for the user. If the algorithm sees a sharp decline in the gross stock value, it sells the stock immediately, thus saving the user a wholesome loss. On the other hand, if the program encounters a high rise it requests the user to invest more into the growing value, thus compounding the investor’s profits and making him millions.

 

The Rewards: The infamous stock market has for long been daunted as a risky scenario. Investors can generate great revenues in a day and go home big or they can lose their savings and have to start over again. But with the help of an efficient AI, one can handle the risks efficaciously. By starting small, a beginner can generate a 10-20% on the invested amount depending on a stable dividend. Compounding these amounts for further investment may lead to an additional increase of 15% and above. For instance, various long-term investors have achieved profits of up to 300% on their initial investment amounts. However, it all depends on the performance of the stock and the assessment of AI.

 

 

__4. Platform Development__
====== 

How it Works: Machine Learning requires a solid platform with a strong backend. This is a result of the increasing amounts of computations being performed to optimize the performance of modern-day AI. In order to handle these hardware and software requirements, professionals are often hired as part-time developers or work on open-source projects for a pay-per-hour basis. Developers may be hired by high profile organizations ready to pay a suitable amount of money in exchange for their platform. Developers can also work on these projects for a pay-per-hour basis. This involves the division of labor.

 

Many programmers get together as a community in order to create the software. Work may be divided as per the capability and the share of revenue each programmer demands. Usually, this scenario is observed for open-source projects wherein the platforms is prepared first and then pitched to an organization The platform can then be made available to the general public at a reasonable cost or free of cost. For instance, platforms such as Google Collab, Google App Engine and Google Cloud Platform are made available to the public at a reasonable cost with free trial periods. Development of these platforms has suitably compensated young coders who are involved in the AI arena and understand the framework of these models. Similarly, Python developers work as open-source coders and are paid by the Python community or sponsored by the users for their programs.

 

The Rewards: High-profile organizations, by default, pay better sums of money to their programmers in comparison to open-source communities. Developers working in organizations like Google, AWS, Heroku, Oracle, etc. have high-paying sources of income which support their needs. These numbers may vary between Rs. 3,50,000- Rs. 10,25,000 and sometimes can go up to Rs. 14,00,000. On the other hand, open-source development may act as a stable but secondary source of income. Library developers and script generators for Keras and Tensorflow and collaborators at Github manage to skim moderate amounts of compensation. These numbers range between Rs. 2,00,000- Rs.5,50,000. However, platform development comes out as a stable income option in the case of open-source development due to continuous returns on one’s code.

 

 

__3. Teaching Online__
 ======

How it Works: The online community for education and teaching has grown over the past couple of years. With an increase in the number of online courses delivered on AI and data science, more users are ready to learn the content and practice it on a paid basis. Teaching comes out as an easy alternative, comparatively. However, it requires some preliminary background work. One can start with a paid online course or a video series on a pay-per-view basis. This would require the preparation of presentations, lectures, notes as study material and practice assignments. Users like to pay for the content and everything that comes with it. Thus, the instructor should provide additional reading material and quizzes or tests to challenge the learning of the user. Furthermore, since AI and Machine Learning are programming disciplines, it is the solemn duty of the instructor to provide the user with basic codes and programmes for understanding so that the user can apply it.

 

Instructors can provide practice codes, links to development platforms, tools and GitHub links at extra costs. This would generate some extra amount for their time spent and there’s no harm in that. The important part of teaching the community online is delivering the content in a comprehensive manner and presenting it through the right medium. Individuals must be able to explain and outline the content well and should host their course on a platform with frequent visitors. For instance, Udemy and Udacity are some of the best online course websites in demand. Programmers and developers host their courses all the time at a low initial cost. This helps in attracting viewership and generating stable cash-flow.

 

The Rewards: Since teaching is a part-time activity, it is strictly suggested to pursue it as a second income source. Compensation amounts are low to moderate for an individual and the efforts may seem to be tirelessly increasing. Most programmers and developers carry out online teaching after their day jobs or as a part of their passion projects such as a start-up or college major. Compensation amount for online education may range from INR 50,000- 2,50,000 depending upon the viewership and the content of the course. These numbers may increase up to INR 3,50,000 at maximum as a result of low course fee and abundant code supply by the instructor.

 

 

__2. Freelance Programming__
====== 

How it Works: Freelancing has become a culture since the advent of online file sharing. Not only in AI and Machine Learning, but freelancing has also found its way in almost every corporate discipline. Report completion, event planning and management, budget generation and market expenditure distribution are some of the activities organizations and individuals allow their employees to freelance. Freelancing helps in saving cost, resources and time since businesses get work done by cheaper labor in a quicker amount of time. In the case of AI, various businesses outsource their programming work to young coders and students who have prior knowledge of the subject. This is easier than hiring new individuals and paying them regularly for a small task.

 

From the freelancer’s end also it is a moderate income job. Most students and coders freelance in order to fund their studies or to generate a second income apart from their day jobs. It is beneficial to the freelancer as it is less work for a decent amount of money along with added experience in the corporate world. Various online portals such as Freelancer.com and Internshala allow students and young individuals to connect with businesses and get enrolled in freelancing opportunities. Good knowledge of the subject along with moderate work experience is all that is required to land you a freelance job.

 

The Rewards: Since freelancing involves small tasks such as backend programming and AI development and maintenance, rewards range from low to moderate in terms of compensation. It also depends on the type and nature of the task which is to be accomplished. For instance, tasks such as AI development, data augmentation, and optimization may pay generous amounts ranging between INR 3,500- 15,000. On the other hand, generalized tasks such as fault monitoring and backend development yield nominal amounts of INR 1,000- 6,000. Due to its task-specific and short-term nature, freelancing is mostly used as a second source of income or a part-time opportunity and is not particularly a stable form of cash flow.

 

 

__1. Starting Up__
====== 

How it works: Taking its inspiration from the ambitious Silicon Valley, modern-day start-ups have been on the rise and rank as the best sources of income, arguably. As a result of their high-paying nature and the risks involved with the investment, start-ups are not every professional’s piece of cake. Young professionals ready to break the Machine Learning field with a new piece of technology such as automated models or novel frameworks, or passionate entrepreneurs willing to make a difference in the society are some of the radicals who wish to be a part of the start-up arena.

 

So what does it take to start a Start-up? In the words of Elon Musk, ‘starting a business is like chewing glass’. Initial risks consist of investment planning and management. Technology requires assets and resources for its manufacturing. These can only be obtained with some initial source of funding and investment. Another essential requirement is the manpower and individuals who are ready to work as a team. Professionals are required to market, manage and expand the product. Without a team, an organization is nothing but a group of people deviating from its path. The last important requirement is the management of risk of failure. Majority of the start-ups fail as they are not able to manage the risks and downfalls of their project. As an entrepreneur, one should have the patience and courage in his AI models to be able to perform in order to reach a marketable level.

 

The Rewards: Rewards can never be a sure-shot given for a start-up business. However, once you crack the code of the business you’re in, a start-up has the potential to touch the sky. Compensation of a business broadly depends on the type of AI product and the technology they are presenting. In the case of completely novel and community-serving products, rewards are expected to rise gradually and up to a greater extent. This eliminates the need for a second income. In fact, most start-ups incorporating AIs such as Uber, Practo, Amazon, Cvent, etc. do not require the need for funding as a result of their soaring revenues. On the other hand, in the case of a small-scale start-up, revenue generation may be less but the amount will be enough to suffice for a healthy business structure and wealthy livelihood. Small-scale organizations act as personal businesses which support the needs of a family or a group of people. Avoiding risks and establishing a basic foundation for expansion are additional benefits of a small-scale start-up.

 

 

With the growing surge of automation, AI and Machine Learning have risen as the two pillars of revenue generation and sustained income optimization. By investing time and money in AI-based projects or creating them, one can easily rely on this domain as her second source of income. Further assessment of the market and manual labor can help add to increasing returns and thus, make the field as a primary source of wealth maximization.

 
