---
title: 5 Easy Ways to Start a Career in AI & Machine Learning
date: 2018-08-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - Machine Learning
  - Artificial Intelligence
---

With the advent of automation and predictive modelling on the rise, fields as diverse as Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence seem to have taken the industry by a storm. As per Gartner, AI projects are set to see an 80% increment in their applications. Of these branches, facial recognition and medical development are expected to see the highest climbs. An increasing number of recruiters are ready to fish individuals with expertise in such areas. If you are planning to jumpstart your career in Artificial Intelligence there is no better time than now. Which brings us to share these 5 simple ways which can help you to start your career in AI and Machine Learning and accelerate towards success.

__5. Keep a constant tab on Industry Updates__
====== 

One of the best ways to start in any field is to keep yourself abreast with the current in the industry. Word of recent adoptions in the market travels fast. With a constant eye out for current developments and algorithms or software being used, you can target the specifics of AI and get a starting point for your career. For instance, multiple corporations such as Google and AWS have started with the adoption of Deep Learning and Reinforcement methods for training models which result in lower error rates. This helps individuals in getting familiar with essential concepts of deep learning such as increasing requirements of data and complexity of models.

 

Platforms such as Amazon’s EC2 and Google’s Collab are some of the most used industrial tools in demand. These inculcate an organizational approach towards applied techniques in AI and methods for their augmentation. A number of corporate meets, conferences, and seminars are organized with active involvement from data scientists and recruiters. Such industrial events can play a significant role in giving rise to collaboration and growing market exposure.

 

 

__4. Take a Professional Courses__
====== 

A sure shot way to enter an industry is taking professional training in the domain. Majority of freshers prefer to engage themselves in short-term or longer duration training classes in a classroom setting or online mode and then proceed towards application-based scenarios. Professional training delivers concepts and mathematical background related to machine intelligence and their optimization methods in real-time. These also tend to involve certain key aspects which individuals tend to miss out when in the industry. For instance, usage and optimization of machine learning models are very essential in order to reduce calculation time and load on devices.

 

A number of classes related to specialization or broader aspects of the field are also available across the globe. Various institutes deliver classroom-based classes, however, the frequency of candidates tends to be higher in online sessions and Webinars. In many cases, online content may be delivered free of cost and is accessible to the user as per his/her schedule.

 

 

__3. Read the Literature__
====== 

Almost all of the breakthroughs occurring in the field of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence have had the platform of academic and scientific research. Evolved from the field of research, AI is actively practiced in research labs and academic settings such as universities and research centers. As a result of this, any novel algorithms and inventions are published in the form of scientific literature. Publications such as research papers and scholarly articles shape deliver content in an articulate and descriptive manner.

 

Apart from conventional books and blog posts, scientific literature involves the reader regarding the background, objective and methodology of the invention and then elaborates upon its usage. Majority of the modern AI models being used for medical analysis, gesture recognition and automated modelling such as Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and Capsule Networks (CapsNet) were proposed from research labs via published papers.

 

Apart from the engagement of research labs, corporate development in the form of research has also been on the rise for the past two years. Establishment of Google Brain and extension of Bell Labs for ubiquitous machine learning has introduced an industrial bent of mind to the arena of research. Scientific articles posted by these organizations come in handy while evaluating techniques and innovating deeper architectures.

 

 

__2. Take a Programming Tutorial__
====== 

Tutorials are one of the most famous methods for learning almost anything. In the case of AI, it is with the help of programming tutorials that candidates can apply their skills and learn about tips and tricks to improve upon them. 75% of AI is programming and designing models. This calls for good programming skills and optimized code which can be executed in reduced time.

 

Programming tutorials are mostly designed from an applicative point of view consisting of languages being used by the industry or academia. Languages such as Python and R are the most required of all skills. A number of tutorials available online help students and data scientists to improve in this area. For instance, the tutorial series designed by Andrew Ng, one of the chief professors at Stanford University is one of the most viewed series by AI enthusiasts online. Similarly, coding and deployment series by Siraj Rawal, the director of the School of AI is also one of the most famous series for Python.

 

Apart from context-based tutorials, a number of data scientists approach teaching from a general point of view as well. Series involving the basics of Python and their usage in AI have actively been discussed and posted online. For example, sentdex is one such author which presents tutorials related to basic operations of Python and its usage for deployment and representation of models. Another added advantage of these tutorials is their free of cost nature and readily available solutions to the learner.

 

 

__1. Start with a MOOC__
====== 

Online courses such as MOOC learning series are arguably the best method to delve into AI and Machine Learning. By making use of interactive quizzes, short videos, programming tutorials, and assignments online courses engage the user in a comprehensive learning environment. Majority of these courses are available on platforms such as Coursera, Udemy, and Udacity and are free of cost (certification excluded). These courses provide the user with the opportunity to learn at his/her availability and pace along with the added advantage of beginning from where they had left.

 

Courses also test the skills of the user by interactive questions and graded assignments. For instance, multiple MOOCs involve the use of Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) to test the user’s memory. This keeps the user learning and revising the concepts side-by-side. In comparison to programming tutorials, MOOCs provide their platform and environment for coding which results in immediate assistance and error rectification. Due to an increasing application of Python for predictive modelling and development, MOOCs designed by various Universities have a cloud-based server where the users can practice and find solutions to their problems.

 

Furthermore, programming exercises are graded and explained thoroughly in tutorial videos. ‘Machine Learning’ by Andrew Ng, ‘Deep Learning’ by Deeplearning.ai and ‘Artificial Neural Networks for Machine Learning’ by Dr. Geoffrey Hinton are some of the most famous courses which are available free of cost and with no requirement for a registration fee. Approximate length of these courses is between 6-11 weeks with 2-3 hours of study and learning time per week. At the completion of the course, users have an option to obtain certification, which may be paid, from the course instructor/organization which helps in strengthening his/her vitae. These shareable certificates are officially issued to the user depicting his command over AI modelling and development.

 

 

Learning AI for application scenarios is growing among freshers and young candidates. Recruiters are thrilled to see an increasing turnout during interview drives. With cutting edge skills and distinguished knowledge of automation, candidates thrive in the industry by associating themselves to reputed corporations.
