---
title: Top 6 Big Data Analytics Trends for 2019
date: 2018-08-21
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-5/
author_profile: false
tags:
  - Big Data
  - Analytics
---

Big Data as a result of its interdependency on various modern technologies, continues to keep growing in modern business conglomerates. Increased data exploitation along with a constant pressure from the market make data analytical techniques a necessity for the corporate sector. The coming year places Big Data Analytics as the key sector to look out for in the field of IT. Here is a curated list of the Top 6 Business Trends to be expected in the evergreen field of Big Data Analytics.

__6. DATA CURATORS__
====== 

Tomer Shiran, CEO and co-founder of Data Analytics firm Dremio, the backbone of open source Apache Arrow project, estimates that business corporations will see the need for a new role: The Data Curator.

 

A Data Curator, as Shiran defines, is a unique blend of Data Consumer and Data Engineer. Having the combined ability of both the profiles to evaluate as well as transform data chunks, Data Curators would be able to understand the meaning of the technologies that are applied to data. Data curators would become responsible for comprehending the different types of analysis to be carried out on the data with respect to the needs of various organizations. Further responsibilities of a Data Curator would involve to check the usability and suitability of data along with the development of self-service platforms for large-scale data assessment.

 

 

__5. AUGMENTED REALITY (AR)__
====== 

After making its mark in the gaming industry, AR is gearing up for Big Data Augmentation. Use of high-level imaging and spatial manipulation is essential in the medical and chemical industries. AR tends to target these entities with its suitable collaboration with Data Analytics. The recent launch of Apple ARKit has enabled developers to make powerful AR apps in bulk and has given the power of AR to iPhone users. Development of Google’s Tango would also boost the AR vibe across Data Analysts. By making use of such platforms, analysts would be able to deploy data apps augmented on high-performance AR multimedia.

 

__4. INTERNET OF THINGS__
====== 

Usage of evolved wireless technology has taken the IT industry in its since the introduction of the Internet of Things (IoT). Sharing the credit for multiple fit-into gadgets and smart systems, IOT is set to make its mark in the data industry. As per industrial research, IOT market is set to grow from its previous $170.57 billion in 2017 to $561.4 billion by 2022. Owing to the advent of new server exploitation techniques, various business firms have started with the usage of IOT for automation systems development and optimization of transactional models. As a result of the high volumes of data collected from the machine-to-machine interaction, IOT has also inspired the use of offline chatbots and personal assistants for customer interaction and client welfare.

 

 

__3. DATA COLLABORATION__
====== 

Gartner’s research indicates that social media mentions of data for good would continue to be increased at a given constant rate of 68%. Use of data in private as well as public and social corporations such as Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) have not only led to the collaboration of various projects but has also changed the ways in which various organizations operate. Big Data techniques in collaboration with anonymous and protected methods would be used to encourage partnership with local government bodies and private firms operating in different sectors. This would lead to the creation of a multi-dimensional network of sharing, accessing, altering and modifying the application of advanced data techniques. For instance, in Senegal, data handling was used to access literacy rates based on text message usage which eventually helped in making resource allocation decisions and literacy programs by social organizations more convenient.

 

 

__2. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE__
====== 

The use of AI has been around the corner for a couple of years. Big data techniques, however, make use of AI models only for specific tasks. For instance, data analysts often exploit AIs for assistive roles. Such usage of AI for augmenting human intelligence rather than replacing it is frequently referred to Augmented Intelligence. Augmented Intelligence is one of the key features of AI to be adopted by the analytics industry along with Deep Learning and Natural Language Processing falling under the same umbrella. Sophisticated learning algorithms capable enough of analyzing patterns in large volumes of data sets are ready to set foot in the Big Data industry and offer automated decision-making techniques which would lead to a better exploitation of the data volume. However, the key role of these models in collaboration with Machine Learning and Deep Learning would remain the same, to reinforce decisions by providing an assistive role to human intelligence.

 

 

__1. ACTIONABLE ANALYTICS__
====== 

In order to meet the need of data and actions to be executed in the same place, business platforms are coalescing business operations, workflows and processes in order to produce better end results with growing chunks of data. Capabilities such as mobile analytics, embedded design analytics, API systems, and dashboard extensions have all become a part of this essential characteristic.

 

Apart from its technical profiles, Actionable Analytics is also paving the way for non-technical roles as well. For instance, organizations have started embedding analytics into customer relationships such as Salesforce. This has led to better product usage over time and mapping of accountable data for analytical purposes. Furthermore, IT managers who lean on analytics to monitor ticket queries use dashboard extensions directly from dashboards than using the ticketing system. This results in faster action and improved usage of the action.

 

Upcoming business ideas in corroboration with advanced data handling techniques pave the way for advancements in the data sector. With businesses ready to grab hold of analytical executions, Big Data promises a fruitful year in the IT arena. Which Big Data Analytics trend is your firm likely to witness in 2019?
