---
title: How to Start a Career in FinTech
date: 2019-06-01
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-9/
author_profile: false
tags:
  - Finance
  - Technology
---


Over the years financial services have seen a drastic increment in their usage. This is a result of the growing trading market and the accumulation of wealth in the economic sector. In order to support this rise, a number of digital services were launched which would support transactions and consumer handling. The basic idea of moving Banking towards a digital platform was to devise an automatic solution to complex money handling. Thus, the rise of Fintech began. Since the onset of digitization, a number of organizations have come up making their way to the top of the Fintech market. This change has resulted in a direct influence on the job sector by entailing recruiters to hire individuals with sufficient knowledge of banking and technology.

 



 

According to a report issued by Statistica, the net value of financial innovation doubled between the years 2008 to 2012. Since then, the industry has seen continuous growth within the global market. Fintech is projected to gross up to $43 Billion by 2019 and $46 Billion by 2020.

 

__Background and Requirements__
====== 

Making your mark in the Fintech industry comes in the form of a variety of roles. From the financial aspect, an individual is required to possess ample knowledge of banking strategies and risk management. Employees may be hired in the form of analysts and associates wherein the primary requirement is the evaluation and assessment of digital strategies and consumer behavior. They are asked to orient the buying-selling process in a system-friendly manner and manage transaction data. Additional roles and responsibilities involve digital feature assessment and consumer satisfaction assurance using marketing management.

 

The second type of profile that the Fintech industry entertains is the technical profile. The most selected out of the two, technical roles consist of engineering and consultant job descriptions. Individuals are hired to design algorithms, come up with creative user interfaces, debug transaction techniques, link multiple accounts and assure network safety and security of a given transaction. In order to match the efforts of the aforesaid duties, one must have good programming and web development skills. Designers are additionally expected to have proficiency in various design suites and software tools. Apart from engineers, safety specialists and security consultants are required to have certification along with encryption handling and database manipulation techniques.

 

__Compensation__
====== 

Rapid growth in the financial sector has led to a proportionate rise in rewards. The median salary for the profile of engineers and consultants ranges from Rs. 2,50,000 to Rs. 6,00,000, according to Glassdoor. The range is further subdivided as per the experience and position. Engineers with 1-3 years of experience may be rewarded in the range of Rs. 2,50,000- Rs.3,50,000. Engineers having experience greater than 3 years are rewarded anywhere between Rs. 3,00,000- Rs. 6,00,000. In terms of positions, a junior engineer or financial consultant may be rewarded Rs. 2,50,000- Rs. 5,00,000. On the other hand, senior engineers and project managers may earn between Rs. 7,50,000- Rs.13,00,000. Administrative positions such as that of a financial manager can earn up to Rs. 17,50,000.

 

__Summing It Up__
====== 

The growth in the FinTech sector promises evolving technologies in the realms of banking and finance. With the rise of digital transactions and advanced net-banking solutions, innovation prospects in the financial arena are at an all-time high. Prior skills in digital trading and investing along with a strong grip on programming from an engineer’s point of view can make a strong candidature for reputed service firms.
