---
title: Top 5 Career Options Beyond Data Science to Consider in 2019
date: 2019-02-01
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-8/
author_profile: false
tags:
  - Finance
  - Technology
---

Careers in Data Science have seen tremendous growth in 2018 despite a drop in the markets. Domains like Big Data Analytics and Artificial Intelligence saw an overall growth of 10.5% as per Gartner Research. A similar trend is expected in 2019 for Indian technology. “Such performance puts the world’s 2nd largest population in a position to become world’s leading growth engines” as per a report issued by the McKinsey Global Institute (MGI). However, increasing saturation in Business Analytics and Data Science sectors is rapidly paving way for many other domains that were being overshadowed over the past couple of years. Here is a curated list of the Top 5 Careers that are a good option for professionals planning to build a career in domains other than Big Data, Data Science and other similar fields.

__5. Augmented Reality (AR)__
====== 

Why it matters: Most known for its applications in the gaming industry and high-quality graphics engine development, AR is one of the growing branches of IT. BY making use of advanced algorithms and computer vision techniques, AR promises a future not only for the gaming industry but also for video processing and television companies stepping up to develop AR interfaces and broadcasting methods. In terms of recruitment and requirements as well, AR has grown to be one of the most entertaining fields to work in.

 

Expected Growth: 1.5% – 3%

 

Median Compensation: INR 3,75,000 – Rs. 4,50,000.

 

 

__4. Smart Healthcare Services__
====== 

How it Matters: With the introduction of biomedical image processing and signal analysis techniques, smart and economical health services are ready to make a dive in augmenting the healthcare sector of the Indian subcontinent. The share of the population aged 60 and older is set to climb to 19% by 2050, according to the United Nations Population Division. Keeping this in mind, the healthcare sector has started offering various tech-savvy methods for door-to-door checkups such as portable equipment and real-time systems for accurate and faster results. Healthcare services have also incorporated the use of diagnostic development consisting of advanced applications and software to be used for the treatment of terminal stage diseases.

 

Expected Growth: 2.5% – 3.5%

 

Median Compensation: INR 4,25,000 – Rs. 5,25,000.

 

__3. Financial Technology__
====== 

How it Matters: The growing economy has found online payments and digital wallets to be a reliable source of faster and convenient transactions. With big players such as Paytm, PhonePe and Freecharge expanding by the second, consumers are set to avail the benefits that accompany these services. MGI estimates that mobile services could soon give 300 million users access to banking services and options. Services based on credit are further estimated to stimulate the economy. Developers across the subcontinent have found recruitment opportunities in this arena as a result of its collaboration with the financial market.

 

Expected Growth: 3.25% – 4.75%

 

Median Compensation: INR 4,75,000 – Rs. 5,50,000.

 

 

__2. Automation__
====== 

How it Matters: Automation was earlier regarded as the primary job-snatchers in the market leading potential candidates to think that the intelligent algorithms and hardware would carry out their work. Contrary to this belief, automation has led the industry to create more jobs. Development of intelligent models and automated systems used for programming and customer interaction requires graduates specializing in fields such as predictive modelling, real-time systems, and cloud computing technologies. Compared to the previous years, automation is set to witness one of the biggest leaps in recruitment numbers as a result of increasing demand for smart systems.

 

Expected Growth: 4% – 5.25%

 

Median Compensation: INR 4,00,000- Rs. 6,25,000.

 

 

__1. Blockchain Development__
====== 

How it Matters: The usage of blockchains for public transactions and ledger tracking has grown exponentially over the past couple of years. Serving a comparable market to big data and data science, blockchains have become investor’s favorite tools to transact in. Apart from their applications in financial services, blockchains are also being used for algorithm development and online storage as a result of peer-to-peer sharing mechanisms. Market professionals and investors foresee blockchain management and handling as the biggest growing sector in terms of innovative developments.

 

Expected Growth: 4.5% – 6.25%

 

Median Compensation: INR 4,50,000- Rs. 6,75,000.

 

 

“India’s competitiveness has improved across the board in particular in goods market efficiency, business sophistication, and innovation” the MGI report states. An overall improvement of 3% in the international market has led the continental IT market to push forward areas ready to see ample growth. With a growing outreach of these areas, the coming year promises recruitment and innovative opportunities for candidates as well as organizations.
