---
title: Top 7 Artificial Intelligence (AI) Technology Trends for 2019
date: 2019-01-01
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-7/
author_profile: false
tags:
  - Machine Learning
  - Artificial Intelligence
---

The rise of advanced Deep Learning has made Artificial Intelligence the center of today’s data evolution. With new algorithms paving the way for augmented techniques and better learning approaches, Artificial Intelligence is set to mark $1.2 trillion in 2019 as per Gartner. Here is a list of the top 7 trends ready to take place in the upcoming year.

__7. Improved Learning Techniques__
====== 

How it works: Use of improved learning techniques such as Reinforcement learning has become frequent over the past couple of years. The model is allowed to interact with ideal behavior in the task and optimize its performance. Combining advanced learning techniques with deep learning yields better results in the form of accurate predictions and real-time applications. Also, the requirement of data is minimized by coupling additional optimization algorithms.

 

Why it matters: Advanced learning has set its foot in the gaming industry by learning gaming strategies such as Atari and Go. Models offer tough competition to their common human competitors and learn while playing strategies. In the business arena, improved learning is expected to see a growth in its applications such as market predictions and customer interaction. With their ability to predict plausible results in a limited span of time, such techniques are ready to see their employment in housing price predictions, real-estate trades and mortgage investment.

 

 

__6. Generalized Approaches__
====== 

How it works: What’s better than one AI? Two AIs! Generalized approaches consist of pairs of AIs competing with each other to improve and predict the response on a given dataset. One of the AI, known as the generator, generates synthetic data which is exactly similar to the actual dataset. The second AI, known as the discriminator, offers predictions on the combined data. Both the networks improve in their performance over time.

 

Why it matters: Multiple AIs, being unsupervised learning algorithms, open Deep Learning to a wider variety of unsupervised applications. They reduce the load per network of the dataset. As a result of their competitive nature, AIs have made way for advanced research in mathematical fields such as Decision-Making and Game Theory. With rising employment in cyber-security, generalized approaches are predicted to make smart security systems and fool-proof firewalls. By creating fake protocols and competing with them, AIs are ready to be a part of the security as well as the blockchain sector.

 

 

__5. Augmented Learning__
====== 

How it works: One of the common problems data scientists face in training AI models is the availability of data. Augmented data learning revolves around increasing the quantity of data for the model to learn even the most intricate aspects of the task. Advanced models may be trained through recursion and convolution to study the existing and generate similar instances from them.

 

Why it matters: Augmented learning solves one of the biggest problems in the field of Deep Learning, obtaining more data for training. With their convenient usage and ability to switch tasks in a limited span of time, augmented learning has started to witness a sizeable amount of growth in business problems such as automated marketing strategies, pre-organized business transactions, and customer feedback mechanisms.

 

 

__4. Hybrid Models__
====== 

How it works: Different models in Deep Learning can be combined to produce an improvement in predictions. Since applications of most of the models in AI are the same, these are grouped together in the form of sequential models or used in parallel with each other. Such combinations result in better prediction rates and minimized errors.

 

Why it matters: Hybrid models remove uncertainty from various business problems. They produce a better description of the model as well as the dataset. Furthermore, their applications have given rise to the introduction of probable outcomes in the economic and trading sector keeping into account the growing number of investors.

 

 

__3. Probabilistic Modelling__
====== 

How it works: Probabilistic modeling makes use of probability programming which is a high-level programming language. A programmer can create models based on the probabilities of the task and predictions to be offered. The system is capable of automatically solving the problem in terms of possible outcomes. Such type of programming makes use of inbuilt probabilistic frameworks for the purpose of advanced computing.

 

Why it matters: With a growing adoption of probabilistic languages, incomplete information is eliminated from business as well as marketing domains. Future adoptions of probabilistic modeling promise improvement in estimation methods as well.

 

 

__2. Automated Machine Learning (AutoML)__
====== 

How it works: AutoML relieves the burden of model creation from the programmer and provides it to the AI itself. Automated systems perform the task of creating models which would then be used to offer predictions. In simple words, think of it as an AI creating an AI!

 

Why it matters: AutoML, with its popular introduction by Google, has taken the AI industry within its grip. Programmers have the ability to freely devise models capable of learning as well as generating data on their own. Apart from its automated creation, AutoML also carries out the task of monitoring the model’s performance and raising error alarms in case of any ambiguity. AutoML is predicted to witness a significant amount of growth in the research sector as a result of its reduced complexity and ease of operation. Apart from research, AutoML is also set to be introduced in collaboration with DeepMind, Google’s AI endeavor for speech recognition and personal assistance.

 

 

__1. Capsule Networks__
====== 

How it works: Highly dominant in comparison to its contemporary contender, the Convolution Neural Network, a Capsule Network makes use of capsule theory in order to perceive even the most complex types of datasets. Capsule Networks take into spatial relationships between the objects in data and understand them via the multi-dimensional grouping of neurons called capsules. These capsules provide a concise estimation of the learned data which results in the minimization of misclassified entities and high error rates.

 

Why it matters: Created by Dr. Geoffry Hinton itself, the Godfather of Deep Learning, Capsule Networks has taken the world by storm. With only a year after their introduction, Capsule Networks are now being used in the field of medical imaging and diagnostic development. Due to their less requirement of data, multiple Capsule Networks are being used for disease detection and food type classification. The coming year promises a significant growth for the adoption of capsule theory in the form of capsule networks.

 

 

The year 2019 promises ample growth in the automation sector. With each passing day, new algorithms and techniques line up for their acceptance into the global market. Advancements in the field of AI have led to the development of complex approaches and would continue to do so in the coming time.
